# checklist 0.2.0

* Migrate from ['git2r'](https://docs.ropensci.org/git2r/) to [`gert`](https://docs.ropensci.org/gert/) to communicate with Git and GitHub

## Bugfix

* `update_package()` escapes double quotes in the abstract of `inst/CITATION`.
* Docker image uses the development version of [`lintr`](https://github.com/jimhester/lintr)
* `check_source()` handles projects with [`renv`](https://rstudio.github.io/renv/) on GitHub Actions.

# checklist 0.1.14

* Improve error message when changes in `CITATION` need to be commit. (#64)
* `create_package()` can use maintainer information stored in the options.
  See `usethis::use_description()` on how to set the option.
* Add R universe badges to README.
* Add `write_zenodo_json()` and `write_citation_cff()`.
* Improve the checklist Github Actions.

## Bugfix

* `create_package()` replaces package name place holder with actual package name
  in `_pkgdown.yml`.

# checklist 0.1.13

* A new function `update_citation()` creates or updates a default citation in
  `inst/CITATION`.
* When INBO is not listed as copyright holder, `check_description()` returns a
  warning rather than an error. 
  This implies that you can motivate to ignore it via `write_checklist()`. (#33)
* Ignore all `.Rd` files when running `check_filename()`. (#59)
* `check_filename()` allows `R/sysdata.rda`. (#62)

# checklist 0.1.12

## User visible changes

* New `new_branch()` function to start a new branch from the most recent version
  of the main branch.
  This function will run `clean_git()` before creating the new branch.
* `check_package()` runs the `pkgdown::build_site()` by default in interactive
  sessions.
  The function gains a `pkgdown` argument to turn of this behaviour.

## Bugfixes

* `check_filename()` handles git repositories without commits.
* `check_filename()` ignores Rd files.
  They have use a different naming convention when generated by Roxygen2. 
* `clean_git()` yields cleaner warnings.
* `create_hexsticker()` will create the target directory when it doesn't exist.

## Package management

* Add Docker build tests.
* `check_filename()` ignores `docker-compose` files.

# checklist 0.1.11

* Exclude `renv` and `packrat` folders from `check_lintr()`.
* GitHub Actions bash script for packages checks out the main branch before
  setting tags.
* Install `codemetar` from GitHub because is it not available from CRAN.
* Install `devtools` from CRAN as the relevant version in available on CRAN.
* Add GitHub Action to automatically remove artefacts.
  This is required to keep the [used storage](https://github.com/inbo/tutorials/issues/251) to a minimum.
* Checks on different OS's only halt on errors.
  Because importing `codemetar` from GitHub results in a warning.
* Don't install dependencies automatically in the `Dockerfile`.
  This triggers an error when a dependency is not listed in the `Dockerfile`.
* `pkgdown` ensures that the reference page lists all exported functions.
* New `pkgdown` cascading style sheet.
* Bugfix in `clean_git()`.

# checklist 0.1.10

## User visible changes

* Add `clean_git()` to bring a local git repo up-to-date.
    * Bring local branches up-to-date when there are behind the origin.
    * Remove remote branches when removed from the origin.
    * Remove local branches when fully merged into the main branch.
    * Warn for diverging branches.
* `create_hexsticker()` yields an svg file instead of png.
  The user can optionally specify an svg icon file to add to the hexsticker.
* Keep failed build artefacts only 14 days (https://github.com/inbo/tutorials/issues/251).

## Bugfixes

* Avoid false positive lintr when `.Rproj` file is put under version control.
* `check_files()` considers files with svg extensions as graphical files.
* Minor bugfix in `entrypoint_package.sh`.

# checklist 0.1.9

## User visible changes

* Many communities, both on GitHub and in the wider Git community, are
  considering renaming the default branch name of their repository from
  `master`.
  GitHub is gradually renaming the default branch of our own repositories from
  `master` to `main`.
  Therefore `checklist` now allows both a `main` or `master` branch as default.
  In case both are present, `checklist` uses `main`.
  Using only a `master` branch yields a note.
  Hence you must either which to a `main` branch or allow the note with
  `write_checklist()` (#44).

## Bugfixes

* Convert fancy single quotes to neutral single quotes (#42).
* Fix `check_description()`.

# checklist 0.1.8

* Create a release when pushing a tag starting with `v`.
  We use a GitHub Action to create the release instead of an R function.
* New function: `setup_source()` to setup projects with only source files.
* Add auxiliary function `create_hexsticker()`.
* Update `check_filename()` rules
    * Allow a `data-raw` folder
    * Allow more default GitHub file names
    * Ignore font files
    * csl files must follow the rules for graphics files
* `create_package()` adds
    * URL and BugReports to `DESCRIPTION`
    * GitHub Actions
    * basic setup for [`pkgdown`](https://pkgdown.r-lib.org/).
* `setup_package()` updates `.Rbuildignore` and basic setup for
  [`pkgdown`](https://pkgdown.r-lib.org/).
* Add more documentation on all functions.
* Add two vignettes:
    * `vignette("getting_started")`
    * `vignette("philosophy")`
* Use Ubuntu 18.04 instead of the end of life Ubuntu 16.04 when checking the
  package on the previous R release (#31).

# checklist 0.1.7

* Pushing to master should automatically create a release, using `set_tag()`.
* Add a Zenodo DOI badge to the README and DOI URL to DESCRIPTION.
* `check_description()` now checks authors (#7).
    * INBO is set as copyright holder and funder.
    * Every author has an ORCID.
* `setup_package()` adds the required files for a `pkgdown` website (#21).

# checklist 0.1.6

* Drop the `codemeta.json` file.
  It requires constant updating as it contains a package file size.

# checklist 0.1.5

* `check_documentation()` allows `NEWS.md` to have level 2 headings (`##`) and
  single line subitems (`    *`).
  It doesn't count URLs when determining the line of a line. 
  This allows lines to be longer than 80 characters due to long URLs.
* `check_filename()` is more liberal.
    * Allows files ending on `-package.Rd`.
    * Allows json or yml files starting with a dot and followed by letters.
    * Allows filename `cran-comment.md` and `WORDLIST`.
    * Allows `man-roxygen` as folder name.
    * Requires underscore (`_`) as separator for non-graphics files.
    * Requires dash (`-`) as separator for graphics files.
    * Basename separator issue are warnings instead of errors.
  So you can allow these warnings via `write_checklist()`.
* Fix deploying pkgdown website and release.
* Package require a `codemeta.json` as written by `codemetar::write_codemeta`.
  Suggestions by `codemetar` to improve the package become checklist notes.
* `set_tag()` fails when in a detached HEAD state.
* `set_tag()` creates a release when a tag is created on GitHub.
* `check_cran()` ignores system time check when world clock API is not
  available.
* `check_license()` verifies the license information of a package.
  This check is included via `check_description()` in `check_package()`.

# checklist 0.1.4

* `set_tag()` skips if the tag already exists.
* `create_package()` sets a code of conduct and contributing guidelines.
* `create_package()` sets `LICENSE.md`.
* Run `pkgdown::build_site()` during the 
  [`check_pkg`](https://github.com/inbo/actions/) GitHub action.
* Deploy the `pkgdown` website to a `gp-pages` branch when pushing to master 
  during the [`check_pkg`](https://github.com/inbo/actions/) GitHub action.

# checklist 0.1.3

* Add `validate_email()` to check for valid email adresses.
* Add `orcid2person()` which converts a valid ORCID into a `person` object.
* Add `create_package()` which prepare an RStudio project with an empty package.

# checklist 0.1.2

* Correctly check the package version on the master branch and during rebasing.
* Updating the master branch will set a tag with the current version.

# checklist 0.1.1

* Added a `NEWS.md` file to track changes to the package.
* Added a `README.Rmd` file with installation instructions.
* Rework `checklist_template()` into `write_checklist()`.
* Add `check_description()`.
* Add `check_documentation()`.
* Add `check_filename()`.
* Add `check_source()`.
* `check_lintr()` also works on source code repositories.
* Activate GitHub action `inbo/check_package`.

# checklist 0.1.0

* Initial version.
* Create `checklist` R6 class.
* Add `check_cran()`.
* Add `check_lintr()`.
* Add `check_package()`.
* Add `read_checklist()`.
* Add `checklist_template()`.
* Add Dockerimage for GitHub actions.
